***Mitraillette***
=======================
MITRAILLETTE is a software designed to do some basic validations on ARPEGE, ALADIN, AROME, and
versions used by ALADIN or HIRLAM partners. It is shared between METEO-FRANCE, ALADIN partners and
HIRLAM partners. It is currently not used by ECMWF.

The current design of MITRAILLETTE allows to use it on different machines with minimal adaptations
concentrated in a reduced number of environnement files: that allows a minimal amount of work when scripts must
be adapted to a new machine. The design has been adapted in order that introduction of new configurations to
validate will be easy for everybody.

***Structure of the repository***
=======================
- doc\_mitraillette\_v042018.pdf : old but complete documentation

- PRO\_FILE.\[cycle\_name\] : file with the list of experiments to test for each cycle.
 PRO\_FILE.\[cycle\_name\]\_arpref => arpege
 PRO\_FILE.\[cycle\_name\]\_aldref => aladin

- mitraillette.x : script to run the tests; to run the test do : 
mitraillette.x CY50 PRO\_FILE.CY50\_arpref

- namelist directory : Fortran namelist to run for each test case

- io\_serv\_tools directory : utilities to run the io server

- protojobs directory : - for each test case there is a .pjob file, these pjob
files are used to run the test case. 
                        - [computer_name] : info to run mitraillette on a specific machine.
                         
- mitraillette.v102025.txt : some comments

***Running the test case***
=======================
- see doc\_mitraillette\_v042018.pdf

- short resume : 
  1) define STATION to the computer you are using (the directory for that computer
must exists in protojobs/\[STATION\].
  2) choose the  PRO_FILE that you want to use, and edit it keeping the experiments
you want to run. Then update the path to the path to your executable.
  3) create a directory for the cycle on which you are running the tests, for example 
create cy50t1 dir if you are running PRO_FILE.CY50T1.
  4) export MIT_INSTALL_DIR to where you have downloaded this repository
  5) for example run ./mitraillette.x CY50T1 PRO_FILE.CY50T1
  6) run the test.x file generated by the mitraille.x script 
***Requirements***
------------------

- Having an IAL binary 

